Each domestic property in Sheffield has a Council Tax charge , and there will only be one bill for each property .	domestic	1	domesticated
We calculate your Council Tax bill on the basis that there are at least two people aged 18 or over living in your home .	calculate	1	cipher, cypher, compute, work out, reckon, figure, estimate, reckon, count on, figure, forecast, account, forecast, aim, direct, count, bet, depend, swear, rely, bank, look, reckon
We calculate your Council Tax bill on the basis that there are at least two people aged 18 or over living in your home .	aged	16	elderly, older, senior, of age, ripened, cured
The bill may be addressed to just one of the people responsible for paying or to all of them if all the names are known .	addressed	4	computer address, reference, speech, destination, name and address, turn to, speak, direct, call, cover, treat, handle, plow, deal, accost, come up to
Once we know who in the property is liable to pay , we can decide if any discounts or exemptions apply .	liable	8		apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
Once we know who in the property is liable to pay , we can decide if any discounts or exemptions apply .	discounts	17	price reduction, deduction, discount rate, bank discount, rebate, deduction
Once we know who in the property is liable to pay , we can decide if any discounts or exemptions apply .	exemptions	19	freedom, immunity, granting immunity
Council Tax rules set out the order of who is liable for the charge .	liable	10	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
The liable person is the person who appears first on the list :	liable	1	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
someone who lives in the property and is a statutory or secure tenant	tenant	12	renter
someone who lives in the property and has a licence to live in the property	license	9	permit, permission, permit
Sometimes more than one person is responsible for paying the Council Tax , for example when 2 or more people live in the property and jointly own , rent or lease it .	jointly	25	collectively, conjointly, together with
Sometimes more than one person is responsible for paying the Council Tax , for example when 2 or more people live in the property and jointly own , rent or lease it .	lease	30	rental, letting, term of a contract, rent, hire, charter, let, rent, hire, charter, engage, take
The only time this does not apply is when one resident is severely mentally impaired .	resident	10	occupant, occupier, house physician, resident physician, nonmigratory
The only time this does not apply is when one resident is severely mentally impaired .	severely	12	badly, gravely, seriously, sternly, hard
The only time this does not apply is when one resident is severely mentally impaired .	impaired	14	afflicted
Joint responsibility also applies to a husband , wife , civil partner or opposite sex partner of the person who has to pay the bill providing they all live in the same property .	applies	4	use, utilize, utilise, employ, hold, go for, put on, lend oneself, give, practice, use, enforce, implement
Joint responsibility also applies to a husband , wife , civil partner or opposite sex partner of the person who has to pay the bill providing they all live in the same property .	providing	26	supply, render, furnish, supply, ply, cater, put up, offer, leave, allow for, allow
This applies even if they are not joint owners , leaseholders or tenants .	applies	1	use, utilize, utilise, employ, hold, go for, put on, lend oneself, give, practice, use, enforce, implement
This applies even if they are not joint owners , leaseholders or tenants .	owners	8	proprietor, possessor
This applies even if they are not joint owners , leaseholders or tenants .	leaseholders	10	lessee
This applies even if they are not joint owners , leaseholders or tenants .	tenants	12	renter
Council Tax bills cannot be split between joint council tax payers .	payers	remunerator
For example if three people live in the property , there will only be one bill issued to the household and not three bills for one third of the council tax .	issued	16	 publish, bring out, put out, issue, release, issue, supply, emerge, come out, come forth, go forth, egress, write out, issue, make out, cut
For example if three people live in the property , there will only be one bill issued to the household and not three bills for one third of the council tax .	household	19	 family, household, house, home, menage
We ca n't get involved in any arrangements that people with joint responsibility have made between themselves for payment and , if necessary will take legal action against each one separately if the council tax is not paid .	separately	30	individually, separately, singly, severally, one by one, on an individual basis
This includes anyone who has paid, or been given full benefit for, the amount they consider to be their 'share' of the bill.	includes	1	admit, let in, include 
If you are a landlord renting out a property , the responsibility for paying Council Tax depends on what sort of letting arrangement you have .	renting	5	lease,  lease, let, rent, hire, charter, engage, take, hire, charter, lease
If you are a landlord renting out a property , the responsibility for paying Council Tax depends on what sort of letting arrangement you have .	arrangement	22	agreement, organization, organisation, system, placement, arranging, transcription
If you rent the whole of your property to one person or family , or to joint tenants , your tenants are liable for the Council Tax and we will send the bill to them .	17	tenants	renter
If you rent the whole of your property to one person or family , or to joint tenants , your tenants are liable for the Council Tax and we will send the bill to them .	20	tenants	renter
If you rent the whole of your property to one person or family , or to joint tenants , your tenants are liable for the Council Tax and we will send the bill to them .	22	liable	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
If all your tenants are students , your property is exempt and you will not be charged .	tenants	3	renter
If all your tenants are students , your property is exempt and you will not be charged .	exempt	10	nontaxable
If you rent out your property to several people , and they each have an individual tenancy agreement to occupy only part of the building - called a ` House in Multiple Occupation ' ( HMO ) - you are liable for the Council Tax and we 'll send the bill to you .	tenancy	16	occupancy
If you rent out your property to several people , and they each have an individual tenancy agreement to occupy only part of the building - called a ` House in Multiple Occupation ' ( HMO ) - you are liable for the Council Tax and we 'll send the bill to you . occupy 19	busy, reside, lodge in, fill, concern, interest, occupy, worry, invade, take, use up, absorb, engross, engage, fill, take
If you rent out your property to several people , and they each have an individual tenancy agreement to occupy only part of the building - called a ` House in Multiple Occupation ' ( HMO ) - you are liable for the Council Tax and we 'll send the bill to you .	liable	40	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
The owner ( landlord ) of the property is liable to pay Council Tax where the property is a House in Multiple Occupation , or where the owner lives in the property and lets out rooms .	liable	9	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
Student tenants are liable if there is a single tenancy agreement naming everyone who lives in the property and the owner lives elsewhere .	tenants	1	renter
Student tenants are liable if there is a single tenancy agreement naming everyone who lives in the property and the owner lives elsewhere .	liable	3	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
Student tenants are liable if there is a single tenancy agreement naming everyone who lives in the property and the owner lives elsewhere .	tenancy	9	occupancy
Student tenants are liable if there is a single tenancy agreement naming everyone who lives in the property and the owner lives elsewhere .	naming	11	name, call, know as, be known as, name, identify, nominate, make, appoint, name, nominate, constitute, mention, advert, bring up, cite, name, refer, identify, discover, key, key out, distinguish, describe, list, diagnose
If you are a full time student and you rent a property on your own or with others who are all classed as full time students , you are exempt from paying Council Tax .	classed	21	classify, class, sort, assort, sort out, separate
If you are a full time student and you rent a property on your own or with others who are all classed as full time students , you are exempt from paying Council Tax .	exempt	29	nontaxable
Only the non-students who are joint tenants are liable .	tenants	6	renter
Only the non-students who are joint tenants are liable .	liable	8	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , you will be exempt from paying Council Tax .	sole	20	exclusive, lone, lonesome, only, sole, solitary 
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , you will be exempt from paying Council Tax .	tenant	21	renter
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , you will be exempt from paying Council Tax .	exempt	26	nontaxable
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , but you let out a room or part of your property to non-students , they will be counted as visible adults for Council Tax purposes , and as the sole owner or leaseholder you will be personally liable for the Council Tax charge .	sole	20	exclusive, lone, lonesome, only, sole, solitary
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , but you let out a room or part of your property to non-students , they will be counted as visible adults for Council Tax purposes , and as the sole owner or leaseholder you will be personally liable for the Council Tax charge .	tenant	21	renter
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , but you let out a room or part of your property to non-students , they will be counted as visible adults for Council Tax purposes , and as the sole owner or leaseholder you will be personally liable for the Council Tax charge .	counted	40	count, number, enumerate, numerate, matter, weigh, consider, count, bet, depend, swear, rely, bank, look, calculate, reckon
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , but you let out a room or part of your property to non-students , they will be counted as visible adults for Council Tax purposes , and as the sole owner or leaseholder you will be personally liable for the Council Tax charge .	visible	42	seeable
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , but you let out a room or part of your property to non-students , they will be counted as visible adults for Council Tax purposes , and as the sole owner or leaseholder you will be personally liable for the Council Tax charge .	purposes	47	intent, intention, aim, design, function, purpose, role, use, determination
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , but you let out a room or part of your property to non-students , they will be counted as visible adults for Council Tax purposes , and as the sole owner or leaseholder you will be personally liable for the Council Tax charge .	sole	52	exclusive, lone, lonesome, only, sole, solitary
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , but you let out a room or part of your property to non-students , they will be counted as visible adults for Council Tax purposes , and as the sole owner or leaseholder you will be personally liable for the Council Tax charge .	leaseholder	55	lessee
If you are a full time student and you own the home you live in , or you are the sole tenant , but you let out a room or part of your property to non-students , they will be counted as visible adults for Council Tax purposes , and as the sole owner or leaseholder you will be personally liable for the Council Tax charge .	liable	60	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
If you own your home jointly with your spouse or civil partner , or you have a joint tenancy , and they are not a full-time student , they will be liable for the Council Tax but you will not .	jointly	5	jointly, collectively, conjointly, together with
If you own your home jointly with your spouse or civil partner , or you have a joint tenancy , and they are not a full-time student , they will be liable for the Council Tax but you will not .	spouse	8	partner, married person, mate, better half
If you own your home jointly with your spouse or civil partner , or you have a joint tenancy , and they are not a full-time student , they will be liable for the Council Tax but you will not .	tenancy	18	occupancy
If you own your home jointly with your spouse or civil partner , or you have a joint tenancy , and they are not a full-time student , they will be liable for the Council Tax but you will not .	liable	31	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
If both you and your spouse or civil partner are full time students you will be exempt from Council Tax .	spouse	5	partner, married person, mate, better half
If both you and your spouse or civil partner are full time students you will be exempt from Council Tax .	exempt	16	nontaxable
If both you and your spouse or civil partner are full time students , but there are non-student adults living in your home , you and your spouse or civil partner will be liable for Council Tax but the non-students wo n't be .	spouse	5	partner, married person, mate, better half
If both you and your spouse or civil partner are full time students , but there are non-student adults living in your home , you and your spouse or civil partner will be liable for Council Tax but the non-students wo n't be .	spouse	27	partner, married person, mate, better half
If both you and your spouse or civil partner are full time students , but there are non-student adults living in your home , you and your spouse or civil partner will be liable for Council Tax but the non-students wo n't be .	liable	33	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
Foreign partners or dependants of a student are not liable for Council Tax providing they are not a British Citizen and they are not allowed to work or claim benefit in this country .	dependants	3	dependant, dependent
Foreign partners or dependants of a student are not liable for Council Tax providing they are not a British Citizen and they are not allowed to work or claim benefit in this country .	liable	9	apt, nonimmune, nonresistant, unresistant
Foreign partners or dependants of a student are not liable for Council Tax providing they are not a British Citizen and they are not allowed to work or claim benefit in this country .	providing	13	supply, render, furnish, supply, ply, cater, put up, offer, leave, allow for, allow
